Adding The Turing Way project partnership details (#162)
open-life-science/open-life-science.github.io: ols-2.md

# Role Descriptions

> ## Project leads or Mentees

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Project leads (aka Mentees)
```

Otherwise it sort of sounds like project lead and mentee are two different things

Participants join this program with a project that they either are already working on or want to develop during this program. More details about the role of a project lead (mentee) can be found [here](/about#mentees).

<!--For the second round of the Open Life Science program, we are happy to have [{{ p-participants | size }} participants]-->

## Mentors

> Our project leads are supported in this program by our mentor-community who are paired based on the compatibility of expertise, interests and requirementsof their projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our project leads are supported in this program by our mentor-community who are paired based on the compatibility of expertise, interests and requirements of their projects.
```

### Mentoring training

Mentorship roles can sound like a big personal responsibility and can be overwhelming for new mentors.
To support our mentors in this program, we will offer training, topic-based guided discussions and opportunity for social interaction over 4 calls during the mentorship round:

- 2 training calls in the beginning of the cohort to get participants trained and prepared for their role as mentors
- 1 catch-up call in the middle of the cohort to discuss new topics and challenges that might have occurred and address them
- 1 call at the end to capture experiences of mentors and assess their interest in future cohorts
- Social and co-working calls schedule will be agreed among the mentors as per their needs and interests

> In the mentor training, our mentors will then gain mentoring skills (active listening, effective questioning, giving feedback), learn to celebrate successes and gain confidence on navigating challenges in mentoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the mentor training, our mentors will then gain mentoring skills (active listening, effective questioning, giving feedback), learn to celebrate successes and gain confidence navigating challenges related to mentoring.
```

{% endfor %}
</div>

# Collaborators

OLS team have established the following collaborations to support organisation specific projects within the OLS-2 cohort:

## OLS-2 for Turing

Under the collaboration name **OLS-2 for Turing**, Open Life Science has partnered with [_The Turing Way_](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way), a project within the [Tools, Practices and Systems Research Program](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-programmes/tools-practices-and-systems) in [The Alan Turing Institute](https://www.turing.ac.uk/).

This partnership will offer training and mentoring to interested members from Turing and _The Turing Way_ communities to join the second cohort (OLS-2) individually or in teams.
They will have an opportunity to develop Open Science aspects in the projects that they either already have been working on, or want to develop in the near future.

> Mentors will be preferably selected from The Alan Turing Institute but there will be a possibility to match projects with the right mentor from our current capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mentors will be preferably selected from The Alan Turing Institute but there will be a possibility to match projects with the right mentor from the broader cohort.
```

The roles and benefits for the participants and the eligibility of proposed projects will be as described for our main program.

> Since this partnership was announced closer to the deadline of the OLS-2 application call, we will welcome application for *OLS-2 for Turing** projects till **15 July 2020** to ensure that interested participants have sufficient time to discuss their plans with their supervisors within the organisation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since this partnership was announced close to the deadline of the OLS-2 application call, we will welcome applications for *OLS-2 for Turing** projects until **15 July 2020** to ensure that interested participants have sufficient time to discuss their plans with their supervisors within the organisation.
```

- Speakers will present their work related to the topic of the week
- Participants will be given group discussion exercises
- An open Q&A will be run and notes will be co-developed
- Exercises will be given for the week to be completed before the mentee-mentor meeting

The calls will be hosted online using the Zoom web-conferencing option.
A link for the calls will be shared for each meeting separately.

Look up the shared notes for each call linked to the [schedule](#schedule) in this website.
You will also be updated via email each week by the organisers with additional details to aid your participation.

**If you can't make it to a call**:

The call will be recorded and available on the [OLS YouTube channel]({{ site.youtube }}) after the call.

If you can not attend most calls during the program due to the time zone incompatibility or other personal obligation, please let the organisers know.

> If you miss to communicate with your mentor regularly or not engage in the program as planned, we'll evaluate if you would be able to finish the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are unable to communicate with your mentor regularly or do not engage in the program as planned, we may need to evaluate if you are able to finish the program.
```

## Mentor-mentee calls

The Mentor-mentee calls take place **every 2 weeks** (unless mentioned otherwise) and last for **30 minutes**.

During these calls:
- Mentors help their mentees evaluate their understanding of the new topics
- Mentees will complete their task assigned at the cohort calls using new skills learned that week
- Mentors and mentee will review progress together where mentees provide constructive feedback
- Mentors will connect mentees with other experts and get consulted on their project when needed

Coordinate with your mentor how you manage the notes and assignments for your 1:1 calls.

The online communication options can be agreed upon by the mentor-mentee pairs.
A few options to explore are the following:

- Zoom: 40 mins limit for each call
- Google hangout: Free for members with google account
- Skype: Free, download the app
- Whereby.com: Free option, valid upto 4 participants

> - Jitsy: Free, web-based call is possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Jitsi](https://meet.jit.si/): Free, open source web-based call is possible
```

Reviewer: typo fix + added link while I was there :)

Author: Added the change in a different PR

- Whatsapp or other phone-based calls: Only if both mentor and mentee are comfortable with exchanging numbers

If a mentor has to miss a mentee-mentor meeting, please discuss it with your mentee and reschedule your call.
If you are unable to make it to any slot together, please find other ways (asynchronous documentation) to interact with your mentee.

> if mentee has to step back from the program for any reason, please communicate with the organisers to identify an alternative for their mentees.

Reviewer: should this be mentor in the first instance? 
```suggestion
If mentor has to step back from the program for any reason, please communicate with the organisers to identify an alternative for their mentees.
```

Author: Added the change in a different PR

## Mentors calls

4 mentor calls will take place during the program.

The calls will be hosted online using the Zoom web-conferencing option. A link for the calls will be shared for each meeting separately.

## Communication channels

### Communication within the cohort members

#### OLS-2 Slack Channel

A dedicated Slack channel has been setup to facilitate real-time as well as asynchronous communication among the all members of the OLS-2 cohort.
A personal invitation link will be shared with the participants via an email.

#### OLS-2 private Google group

Organizers inform participants of the week schedule by email. An archive of all emails can be found on the private OLS-2 Google group.

An invitation is sent to all participants (mentees, mentors, etc) at the beginning of the program. If it is not the case, please [contact the team](mailto:{{ site.email }})

### Communication with members not in the cohort

#### Twitter

General updates from the program such as new posts, collaborations and relevant retweets will be shared via our [official Twitter channel](twitter.com/{{ site.twitter }}).

#### Gitter

> We have a public [Gitter](https://gitter.im/{{ site.gitter }}) channel that can be used by members who are not a part of the OLS program to contact the OLS team and community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a public [Gitter](https://gitter.im/{{ site.gitter }}) channel that can be used by members of the public contact the OLS team and community.
```

feels slightly more inclusive

Author: Added the change in a different PR
